What is JDK?
Which is the latest Version of Java?
What is the Advantage of Java?
Javac and Java commands are available in which folder?
What is the signature of main method?
What is keyword?List some keywords
What is an identifier?
what are literals?
Java is Platform independent.Explain
What is JRE?
What is a Variable?
Mention all the primitive data types in java
What are primitive variables?
What are Reference Variables?
What is String in java?
What is a method?
General Syntax for a method?
What is Method Overloading?
Why Method Overloading?
What are members?
What are static members?
what are non static members?
List out the differences between static and non-static members?
what is an Object?
What is a class?
What are Global variables?
How can you access static global variable of a class?
How can you accesss non-static global variables of a class
what will be the default value for global variables?
What will be the default value for reference variables?
what is the default value for boolean variable?
What are the differences between local and global variable?
How can you declare constant variables in java?
can we just declare a final global variable?
What is an SIB?
When does SIB's get Executed?
How many times SIB's will be executed in one execution cycle?
What is an IIB?
When IIB's will be executed?
How many times IIB's will be executed in one execution cycle?
What does a method's return type signifies?
Can we Develop a method w/o return type?
What is call by value and call by reference?
What is a constructor?
What are two types of constructors?
What is a default constructor?
What is this() calling statement?
What is Recursion?
Recursion while constructor overloading will result in compile time or run time error
What is "this" keyword?
What is instance variable hiding?
What is the use of this Keyword?
What is Inheritance?
What are the different types of inheritance?
What is extends?
Does Java support multiple inheritance?
What is Diamond Problem?
Why Java Doesn’t support Multiple inheritance?
What is super() calling statement?
What is "super" keyword?
What is the difference between super() and this() calling statement?
what is the differnce between "super" and "this" keyword?
What is Method Overriding?
Can we Override static methods?
What is an abstract method?
What is an abstract class?
Can we instantiate an abstract class?
What is the rule to be followed by the sub class of an abstract class???
Can a abstarct class inherit from another abstract class
Is abstract class 100% abstract? Explain
What is an interface?
What is the difference between an abstract class and interface?
Does abstarct class have constructors? If Yes Why?
Does interfaces have constructors?
can we instantiate an interface?
What is implements keyword?
can an interface inherit from another interface?
What is casting?
what is primitive casting?
What is auto Widening and Explicit Narrowing?
What is derived or Object casting?
What is Auto Upcasting and Explicit Downcasting?
Can we Achieve Object casting Without inheritance?
Can we achieve downcasting without upcasting?
what is polymorphism?
Explain differernt types of polymorphism?
What is abstarction?
What are packages?
Why Packages?
What are the different access levels in java? Explain
What is SingleTon class?
What is encapsulation?
Which is the supermost class for all the classes in java?
Explain "toString()" of Object class
Explain "hashCode()" of Object class
Explain "equals()" of Object class
Can a subclass override all these above methods?
What is a final method in java?
What is a final class in java?
What is the use of finalize() method in java?
What is the use of clone() method?
What is a marker interface? Explain and mention atleast two available marker interface
Strings are immutable in java. Justify
Can we have inherit the String class. Justify
Explain the behavior of toString(),hashCode() and equals() method of string class
What is a String constant pool and non-constant pool?
What are arrays?
What is a primitive array?
What is a derived array?
What is Boxing and Unboxing?
What are Wrapper classes?
What is a collection API/Framework?
Explain List type of collection?
Explain Set Type of collection?
Explain Queue Type of collection?
list out the differences between List,Set and Queue type of collections? What are exceptions?
How to handle exception?
What is checked exceptions?
What are unchecked exceptions?
Differents ways of handling checked exceptions?
What is differece between final, finalize() and finally in java
How to Write the data into a text file?
How to read data from a text file?
What is the use of Scanner class in java?
How to read the String from the console?
What are Threads? What is the use of sleep() method in Threads?
Can we develop final methods in interface?
can we develop a final abstract class?
can we develop a static method in abstract class?
can we just declare a variable in interface without initializing?




Experience  Interview Questions



what is method overloading
what is method overriding
what is polymorphism
what is abstract class
what is collection and explain list,set,queue
reverse a given String "javadeveloper"

input is "dinga and dingi is are so good"    and output shud be "good and dingi dinga are so is"
      *
    *  *
  *  *  *
*  *  *  *

1 2 3 4 5
1 2 3 4 5
1 2 3 4 5
1 2 3 4 5


0000000
0          0
0          0 
0          0
0          0
0000000

wap to find factorial of a number
wap to find fibonacci series
wap to find odd even nnumber
wap to find prime number
wap to reverse without 3rd variable
